# restaurant-app-reactNative
A cross-platform mobile app for a restaurant. Built using React Native and the Expo SDK. The backend is handled by json-server + ngrok.

The app allows to: 
- browse dishes in the menu
- view restaurant info
- make a table reservation for a specific date and time. Submitting a reservation creates a notification on the mobile device and creates a wen event in the device's calendar.
- use swipe gestures: swiping left on an item in the menu allows to add that dish to favorites; swiping right brings up the form for submitting a comment
- register in the app. During registration users can select an avatar from their device's gallery or make a photo with the device's camera
- log in. Logging in enables users to submit comments to dishes and add items to their personal list of favorite dishes

See the screenshots folder for in-app screens.

## Frontend
Implemented as a React Native app. Navigation is done via React Navigation (a Drawer Navigator is set up to contain multiple Stack Navigators). Application state is managed by Redux. 

### Technologies used
- ES6 JavaScript 
- React Native
- Redux
- Expo SDK

## Backend
Implemented using a json-server and ngrok. Json-server allows to serve the data via localhost. Ngrok allows to generate a forwarding address for localhost (this is needed because React Native is unable to work with localhost directly).
 
## Usage
I haven't submitted the app to the iOS App Store and Google Play Store yet. So currently the app can only be run locally.

### To run the app locally:

#### Set up ngrok
- download and install ngrok following the instructions at https://ngrok.com/download
- start an HTTP tunnel forwarding to your local port (e.g. 3005):
`./ngrok http 3005`
- edit baseUrl in react-native-client/shared/baseUrl.js to contain the address generated by ngrok.

#### Set up json-server
- `npm install json-server -g`
- `cd json-server`
- start a json-server serving the JSON data from the db.json file and static files from the json-server/public folder:
`json-server --watch db.json -p 3005`   // start the server at port 3005 (the same port that was configured by ngrok)

#### Start the client 
- Make sure the mobile device and the computer are connected to the same Wi-Fi network
- install the Expo client app on your mobile device
- `cd react-native-client`
- `npm install`
- `npm start`
- scan the QR-code with the mobile device's camera and open it in the Expo client app.

